# vicos-oelinux

This repository contains the embedded OS that runs on victor hardware.
If you are looking for victor embedded firmware, robotics, animation and engine layers checkout [vicos](https://github.com/anki/victor).

## Build Instructions

The following steps require a Linux host setup to build vicos-oelinux, e.g. `vmosGamma.ankicore.com`.

Clone git repository:
```
git clone --recursive git@github.com:anki/vicos-oelinux.git
```

Start Build:
```
cd vicos-oelinux/poky
source build/conf/set_bb_env.sh
build-victor-robot-image
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Build Flavors

We currently have 5 different build flavors for the Victor OS.

*build-victor-*

* robot-image
* robot-perf-image
* robot-user-image
* robot-factory-image
* robot-facdev-image

These permute three switches

### Perf
Perf builds are optimized more for performance than non-perf builds, particularly in the Linux Kernel. At the moment
*robot-image* is the only non-perf build flavor.

### User
User build are as intended for software released to actual users. Debugging features such as SSH, ADB and fastboot
are disabled for security. *All user builds are also perf builds.*

**User builds expect to use production signing keys**
* User build LK requires the production kernel signing key to be used to sign the kernel
* User build root file system requires OTA files to be signed with the production OTA signing key

Because user builds are basically not debuggable and require production keys, there are non-user versions of the user
builds.

| User                | Debuggable         |
|---------------------|--------------------|
| robot-user-image    | robot-perf-image   |
| robot-factory-image | robot-facdev-image |

Note that the robot-facdev-image build target as a non-user builds expects development keys, not production keys.

### Factory
Factory builds are intended as the out of box / recovery firmware programmed into the F slots of robots.
The primary difference for factory builds is that `/data` is always mounted as a tmpfs in factory builds so it is
erased every power cycles meaning the robot does not remember wifi configuration etc.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Generating OTAs

Full OTA images can be generated by running `make` in the `/ota` directory of the repository.

To set the update version to something other than the default, set `UPDATE_VERSION=<x.x.x>` after `make`.

To sign an OTA with the production key instead of the dev key, set `OTAKEY=ota_prod.key` after `make`.

Examples:

```
make
make UPDATE_VERSION=1.0.1d
make OTAKEY=ota_prod.key
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Signing keys
This repository contains keys for signing the *boot.img* and for signing OTA files. There are development keys which
are used by default and production keys which must be used manually as described in the sections above.
